Excuse me!
Your Honor!
- Ow!
Oh. you!
Uh. welcome. uh. e-everyone.
to this inaugural excursion
of the Brokenwood Flyer.
The culmination of years
of hard work and planning
by the many dedicated
ferroequinologists
of Brokenwood.
That's. uh. fancy talk for
iron-horse enthusiasts.
And I'm sure you all
know that already.
I'm sure you also know
that we wouldn't be here
today without the sheer grit.
determination.
and fundraising stamina
of two of the Brokenwood
Vintage Railway Society's
leading lights. Rosalie Barnes
and Shane Griffin!
They have committed years
to this exciting project.
and today is the day
when it all comes to fruition.
Oh. my God!
What'd you do that for?
You know what Bloom's like.
He'll prattle on all day
if you let him.
Mrs. Baker's already in a flap
about getting away on schedule.
I always thought
there was a touch of
Mussolini about that woman.
Hey?
Makes the trains
run on time.
No. I think Rosalie's the one
who's pulling the strings.
- Eh. as usual.
- You sound bitter.
- I'm not bitter.
- No?
You've spent three years
pretending
to have an all-consuming
interest in vintage trains.
hoping to catch
Rosalie's glad eye.
only to find out
that the woman of your dreams
has taken up with a sap
of a man half your age.
Shane's not half!
Anyway. you can talk.
You--
All aboard!
♪ When these days are over
and the hills are smoking ♪
♪ Meet me right back here ♪
♪ I had a dream last night ♪
♪ We were riding
on a silver train ♪
♪ So good ♪
Oh!
Well. congratulations.
You did it.
With a lot of help.
If Regan's father hadn't come
to the party when he did.
we'd still be back at
the cake-stall-and-raffle stage.
How are we doing for time?
Oh. relax.
We're all on track.
Oh!
"On track."
By rights.
it should be me driving.
You know that. don't you?
How do you work that out?
It's in the blood.
Dad was a railwayman
50 years.
Handy with a shovel
was he?
The only reason
it's you and not me...
you haven't got
the upper-body strength
not for any hard yakka.
Ah. Hey.
There's nothing
quite like it. is there?
- Hmm?
- The romance of train travel.
If you're not in a hurry.
It's only 20 minutes to
Little Lake by car.
This will take twice as long.
Well. yeah. but that's not
really the point. though. is it?
It's why they closed
the line in the first place.
It wasn't needed.
- Devil on horseback?
- No. thanks.
Oh. no. thank you.
What the hell's that?
- Eh?
- There's something on the track.
Just look.
Oh. geez!
That's not something!
That's somebody!
Stop the bloody train!
Oh!
- What?
- Hmm?
Why have we stopped?
What the hell
do you think you're doing?
You could have got
yourself killed.
Oh. like you care.
Just go ahead
and kill the planet instead.
- Give me strength.
- Unbelievable.
Lily McKelvie. what silly game
are you playing now?
It's not a game.
This is a wake-up call!
What's-- It's the middle
of the afternoon.
We're already awake.
Coal is killing the planet.
Coal is killing the planet!
- What's all this?
- Coal is killing the planet!
- Somebody call the cops.
- No. no. no.
Coal is killing the planet!
I will not have her ruin
Rosalie and Shane's--
I mean. everyone's big day.
I'll deal with you
up at the lake.
Come on. On the train.
- No. you can't make me.
You'll do as you're told
or you'll make things worse
for yourself.
Come on.
Come on!
Don't touch me.
Poor thing.
Are you okay to keep going?
We can swap places
if you're feeling a bit fragile.
No. no. I'm fine.
Ooh!
Come on!
Back on the train!
It's just a hobby for you lot.
but you're not thinking.
Oh. you don't want to know what
I'm thinking. young lady.
Coal is killing the planet.
If you think
the biggest threat to the planet
is a quaint little train
in Brokenwood.
your head's on wrong.
No. you just don't care
'cause you'll be dead soon.
No. no. no. Alright.
Chatty Cathy. wrap it up.
We're almost at the stop
for Little Lake.
Everyone off
and follow the path.
You can't miss it.
This is going really well.
I think.
Where's Rosalie?
Oh. she'll be somewhere
tutuing with her frock.
Having a sneaky cigarette
more like.
No. no. no.
you go with the others.
She wants to make
a big entrance.
I'll find her.
Rosalie?
You there?
Mrs. Baker.
Ooh.
Mike?
I don't want to be rude.
but now's not a good time.
I'm trying
to find a runaway bride.
Uh. I might be
able to help you with that.
What's all this carry-on.
Is someone getting married?
That was the plan. yes.
Did you know anything
about this?
All I know is
I was supposed to get fed.
It's hungry business
shoveling coal.
Oi!
Don't touch.
You reckon the bride's
done a runner?
I sure wish I'd done
a runner on my wedding day.
I don't know.
She's a fine figure of a woman.
is Trudy.
Ah. thanks
for keeping everybody here.
It wasn't hard.
They were expecting a picnic.
I haven't said nothing
about Rosalie.
I wouldn't know how.
Uh. we'll handle that.
Uh. next of kin?
Oh. um...
Oh. Regan.
Rosalie's daughter.
and Shane. the groom.
Excuse me.
Thank you. Mrs. Baker.
You've done a good job.
- Thank you.
Uh. w-what's the story?
Uh. we just need to
interview everyone
about a recent... incident.
Oh. right. That jumped-up
little madam on the tracks.
You think she'd be
old enough to know better.
Right.
Just hold that thought.
We're treating your mother's
death as suspicious.
She may have simply
just fallen from the train.
but we need to be sure about it.
Okay.
And we need someone
to give us a formal I.D.
Um. that should be me.
If you don't feel up to it.
we can ask Rosalie's fiancé.
Her what?
The wedding was
going to be a surprise.
Rosalie's idea.
I would have been
happy with the registry office.
When was the last time
you saw Rosalie?
When the train had stopped.
She'd-- She'd gone
up the front to get
changed into her wedding dress.
I thought she might need
a hand with the fiddly bits.
Everything alright in there?
Go away.
You're not supposed to see me.
It's bad luck.
So you didn't
actually see Rosalie?
You just spoke with her
through the door?
Yeah.
Did anyone witness
the exchange?
No. I doubt it. Everyone else
had left the carriage by then.
trying to work out
why the train had stopped.
We must have stopped
just in time.
and then everyone got off
to see what was happening.
Including Rosalie?
I really can't remember.
There was... a lot going on.
More than you realized?
- What?
- The surprise wedding.
You had no idea?
None.
But you knew that
your mother and Shane Griffin
were in a relationship?
Everybody knew. Mum had
been raving about it for months.
But Shane made her happy.
For the first time
in her life. I think.
So. neither Regan Barnes
nor Shane Griffin
remember seeing the victim
after the train stopped?
Well. Shane said
he'd talked to Rosalie
through the toilet door
and then got off the train
with the others.
And Doug and Ron
were busy letting rip at Lily.
I talked to Doug.
Pinko greenie.
and she was lying on the tracks
like some sort of
damsel in distress.
And she gets up with a placard
and starts waving it around.
going on about coal
and the planet.
God knows what she was trying
to achieve.
So. what did the
"pinko greenie"
have to say for herself?
Huh.
Not much.
Lily McKelvie.
145 Old Creek Road.
Date of birth--
27 March 2008.
And that's all you're getting.
She seems very well-trained
for an 18-year-old.
Are we sure
she was acting alone?
Uh. I'm afraid Mrs. Baker is
in a bit of a state.
Any idea
when we might get the all clear?
As long as they've given
their initial statements.
everyone's free to go.
Oh. lovely.
Uh. just not on
the Brokenwood Flyer.
We still need to inspect
the carriages.
Ah. I see. I see.
I'll see what I can do.
Um. what's the point
in being mayor
if I can't rustle up a
council coach when we need one?
And. uh. Lily McKelvie.
Don't worry about her.
She's coming with us.
Okay.
Oh. here. let me give
you a hand with that.
Oh.
Thank you. Ron.
Got it?
Yeah.
See. Doug? That's what
a gentleman looks like.
- Well. hello there.
- Mm! You sound relaxed.
Not at all. Slugging it out.
You know how it is.
Well. I need you to find
what you can on a Lily McKelvie.
We want to know
if she has any kind of record
of involvement in climate
protest. that sort of thing.
For you.
I will clear my desk.
And give the board a wipe
while you're at it.
We're gonna need it.
So. Doug and Ron
are in the engine cab
with no access to the carriage.
and everyone else is in here.
Black roses.
Bold choice.
And then.
at a certain point.
Rosalie moves to the front
of the carriage...
to change.
But ended up down there.
Before falling--
or being pushed--
onto the tracks
while everyone else was
preoccupied by Lily's protest.
Or so they want us
to believe.
What if the offender wasn't
one of our travelers?
Someone else got on board the
train before it left Brokenwood
and waited for
their chance to attack.
Risky. with nowhere to hide.
There's only this one cubicle.
Yeah.
And a black rose for a corsage.
Slightly weird.
"For R.
You know what this means."
Next step--
handwriting samples
from everyone on the train.
Mm. Uh. what did you find
on Lily McKelvie?
Yeah. Brokenwood's answer
to Greta Thunberg.
Her socials are
dedicated to protest content.
Nothing about
today's protest?
If you're going to go to all
that trouble to stop a train.
you'd want the world
to know about it. right?
You'd be live-streaming
or at least making sure
someone was there to record it.
Well. perhaps somebody did.
Or maybe the protest was
just a diversion.
Well. whatever happened.
it went down fast.
The Crime Stoppers report
about the body on the tracks
came through at 2:47.
Not long after.
the train moved off again.
Who did that report
come from?
Well. someone
who saw something.
but didn't want to get involved.
called it in anonymously.
Well. Lily might be
more forthcoming now
that she knows
that somebody has died.
Oh. um. Gina's gonna
be expecting one of us soon.
so fight amongst yourselves.
Heartbreaker.
Uh. w-was that
you volunteering?
Nice one.
Thank you.
I'm assuming you weren't
actually tied to the tracks.
I'm not an idiot.
Did you have any help
getting into position?
Lying down isn't hard.
At my age. anyway.
Hmm.
Um. no one to cheer you on?
No.
Thanks for your phone. Lily.
Who's Noah?
At 2:45 p.m..
you got a text.
just two words. "You okay?".
from someone called Noah.
He's my boyfriend.
Did he know about
your protest?
- No.
- Then why the text?
Why those words.
"You okay?"
He was just checking in.
I guess.
Just that's the kind of guy
he is.
Tell me a bit more about him.
I cannot be precise
about the time of death.
No. I get it. Gina. Usual
terms and conditions apply.
But when I arrive
at the scene.
what we call the tracking
of the eyes had not begun.
And pallor mortis was
not complete.
It can only have been
a matter of minutes.
15 or 20.
That's pretty precise.
What do you mean?
I am very precise.
Yeah. of course.
but you just--
Do you think my job is easy?
No. but you just--
You want me to
hand you the bone saw?
Knock yourself out.
No. I'm good.
Good.
Now cause of death.
See here?
One significant impact wound.
and the number
of small scrapes and bruises
along her right side.
She died
when she hit the rail track.
Not necessarily.
What does this tell us?
She bounced.
Mike would understand.
Well. Mike's not here. so...
Perhaps she was
fatally hit on one side
of the head and then...
Thrown from the train
and landed on the other side.
Very good.
Now-- Oh. we have a guest.
Come through.
That's her.
That's my mum. Rosalie.
Thank you.
Was it quick?
Very.
If you'd like.
we can give you a--
Has anyone told dad?
Hayden Barnes.
as in Barnes Farming Supplies.
Uh. Regan's father
and Rosalie's ex-husband.
Sims is with him now.
Excuse me.
I'm here for my daughter.
You must be Mr. McKelvie.
Troy.
Could you get
Miss McKelvie. please?
Of course.
Come on through.
I'm Bridget.
Lily's grandmother.
Where is she?
Uh. she'll be here soon.
- You do realize she's only 18?
- Oh. yeah.
Old enough to be charged
with breach of the peace.
Uh. not today. however.
We're letting her off
with a warning.
You just thought
you'd scare her
by keeping her here
all afternoon?
- Hey. kiddo.
- You alright. love?
Can we go. please?
Your granddaughter has been
helping us with our inquiries
into a suspicious death.
A woman died on the train
that was stopped by her protest.
She didn't say anything
about that when she rang.
Uh. does the name
Rosalie Barnes
mean anything to you?
You were close.
Used to be.
Old school friends.
We traveled overseas together.
It was a long time ago.
H-How did it--
W-What happened?
We'll be releasing
a statement in due course.
Right.
I-I should go.
Uh. Lily told us
that she was in a relationship
with one of your farmhands.
Noah.
Noah Dunphy.
If you see him. could
you tell him to get in touch?
Why do you want to talk to
Noah?
We'll explain
that when we see him.
Alright.
I'll-- I'll pass that on.
Thanks. love.
It's hard to believe.
Uh. she had a big train launch
this afternoon. I thought.
I thought she'd be swilling
champagne all day.
I have to ask you this.
Where were you around 2:45 p.m.?
Quarter to 3:00.
Uh...
I was here.
Yeah. you can ask Dan.
And when was the last time
you saw Rosalie?
A few weeks ago.
We met to sign
the divorce papers.
It was all very amicable.
if you're wondering.
My daughter--
does she know?
Yes. She identified the body.
so she may need some support.
Alright.
I'm here. I'm here.
It's gonna be okay.
I did some research on the
McKelvies. found this.
Bridget
and her best friend Rosalie
protesting the closure
of the Brokenwood railway line
way back in the '80s.
The line was closed anyway. but
the track was never pulled up.
And then. 40 years later.
Rosalie is the driving force
behind the Brokenwood Flyer.
Mm-hmm.
Which was bitterly opposed
by Bridget's son. Troy.
He was pushing his own plan
to turn the track
into a cycle trail.
Mm-hmm.
Well. it was either restore
the rails or pull them up.
Council had been shunting
that decision down the track
for about 30 years.
Excuse the pun.
I'd have done the same
if I'd known what
a kerfuffle it would turn into.
What swung it in favor
of the vintage railway?
Well. in a word. Rosalie.
She was a bit of
a steam engine herself.
if you get my drift.
A hard woman to say no to.
It helped that she had
Hayden Barnes' money behind her.
Before the divorce. I mean.
Though I imagine she.
uh. took a good chunk of it
with her when they split.
He bought the
engine and carriages.
paid for the restoration.
Troy McKelvie must
have found it hard to compete.
He just couldn't promise the
investment we were looking for.
Whatever he had himself
he sank into buying
up land along the tracks.
Had some grand scheme
for accommodation and a café.
Actually. I've got it here
somewhere. Um...
Yeah.
"How are you expected
to pay for it?"
"I have no idea."
This is the
McKelvie farm here.
Yeah. what's left of it.
Troy's been selling bits off.
trying to claw back
his investment.
Uh. do you mind
if I get a copy of this?
It would be a pleasure.
Follow me. young man.
Brand-new photocopier.
Very flash.
Voice-activated.
And copy.
Gotta--
You have to say it right.
And copy.
Annoying.
I might just. uh.
use the old digit there.
Trudy. does a
Noah Dunphy drink here?
- Friend of yours. is he?
- It's a professional inquiry.
Thought so.
Don't make me say it.
It's not narking if
he hasn't done anything wrong.
Sure.
Lena.
On my tab.
What was that you just did?
Well. you know what a tab is.
don't you?
No. the nose-tappy thing.
What's that all about?
Trudy knows.
That's all that matters.
Okay. so. Noah comes in with
his mates every now and then.
and. you know.
well. he's always hitting on me.
I mean. I got there.
and there was just nothing.
Nothing--
- Two pales and a hazy.
Thanks very much.
Appreciate it.
Thanks again.
Do you like cats?
Yeah. cats are. uh...
Cats are cool.
- Cool.
I have a catsuit at home.
You know. I mean. like.
for special occasions.
Okay.
Uh. that's-- that's. um...
That's interesting.
Yeah? Thanks.
Lena?
I thought you said
he hit on you.
He did.
He said I was interesting.
And he's cute.
I mean. not--
Not as cute as Chad.
Oh. you think so too?
- No. I just--
- But. then. no one is.
But he is a little bit bad boy.
which is nice sometimes. right?
- Thanks. Lena.
- Yeah.
Oh. Hello.
Are you here
for that pizza for Shane?
Well. normally. I would have
cooked him something.
but I don't know.
I can't seem to settle.
I'm all aquiver.
It's all good.
Mrs. Baker.
how is Mr. Griffin holding up?
Do you really need to ask?
Oh. I'm sorry.
I know you're only doing
your job.
and that's how
the police mind works. isn't it?
The nearest and dearest
are the biggest suspects.
But I am telling you. Shane is
one of nature's gentlemen.
He wouldn't hurt a fly.
And. uh. Hayden Barnes.
Would you say the same
about him?
Well. that's a different story.
Thanks.
So. it's hard to say
if it's intel or just gossip.
but according to Mrs. Baker.
Hayden and Rosalie's
split wasn't as amicable
as he tried to make out.
We get lots of those.
I am not a bloody ATM
for your pet project!
Oh. grow up!
This is bigger than us.
Us?
What "us"?
You've already got yourself
a new toy boy.
Is everything alright?
You're welcome
to the gold-digging cow.
Good luck to you.
Obviously.
Rosalie liked her men younger.
She had 10 years
on Hayden. as well.
Did Hayden know about Rosalie
and Shane's wedding yesterday?
He didn't say.
but Mrs. Baker insisted
that no one knew about it.
not even her own daughter.
Regan.
Check in with Shane.
Find out if he or Rosalie
got any more aggro from Hayden.
Or the McKelvies.
for that matter.
Oh?
Well.
Lily clearly isn't a fan.
And Rosalie and Troy
were practically feuding
over rival schemes.
Uh...
This is the McKelvie farm.
and this is the additional land
that Troy bought
for the tourist development.
Right next to
where Lily stopped the train.
And Bridget's
old friend Rosalie was killed.
- What do you got?
- Noah Dunphy's
still not responding
to my calls.
but that could be because he has
a history of prior arrests.
Disorderly behavior. assault.
Assault on who?
Was related
to a protest action.
A bit of pushing and shoving
on the front line of a march.
A climate protest?
Coal. mining. oil.
Anything that messes
with the environment.
he's against it.
So his text to Lily
moments after her stunt was
in no way a coincidence.
Gotta go.
Uh. Lily.
I was hoping you could help us.
I've already told you
everything.
We've been trying to track
down Noah. but we can't--
Yeah. me too.
So if you see him first. let him
know from me that we're done.
Okay?
I think the kids call
it ghosting.
Ah.
Was there something else
you wanted?
Yes. actually.
Why are you so interested
in Noah?
Well. he's Lily's boyfriend.
Uh. for now.
It's reasonable to assume
that he knew about her protest
Maybe he filmed it.
I mean. after all.
you know.
what's a protest these days
if it isn't all over
the Internet?
Well. it's a bit of a stretch
to go from being a protester
to a murderer. isn't it?
Uh. we had an anonymous
tip-off about Rosalie's body.
Whoever made that report
may have seen more
than they initially shared.
Right.
The incident happened
very close to your land.
Did either of you see anything
out of the ordinary?
I was here making jam.
head down over
the kitchen bench.
I was up in Old Creek paddock.
fixing some fences.
Nowhere near.
Meanwhile. your daughter was
tying herself to railway tracks.
- Mm-hmm.
- Did you know about that?
Uh. she's always
up to something.
I thought she
was just going to wave a sign.
We've always encouraged Lily
to think for herself.
She's so compassionate
and engaged.
and that's something
to be admired. isn't it?
Yeah. Chip off the old block. perhaps.
Do you think. uh. Lily's
protest was inspired by this?
Well. you'd have to ask her.
You had your own reasons
to oppose the vintage railway.
Your failed development plans.
Oh. come on.
Must have been
very frustrating.
Well. not to mention expensive.
We lost that fight ages ago
and accepted it ages ago.
Why are you giving me
and my mum the third degree?
We weren't even on the train.
Shouldn't you be chasing
the people who were?
All lines of inquiry
are being explored.
Which is why I'm going to need
a handwriting sample
from each of you.
There you go.
Not going to win any awards
for calligraphy with that.
Thank you.
Sorry to disturb you.
That's fine.
Anything to help find
whoever hurt Rosie.
Can you think of anyone
who might want to do that?
No.
No. She was wonderful.
She was very caring.
very passionate.
Although. her passion could rub
some people up the wrong way.
Like Hayden?
If Rosie had dumped me.
I'd be devastated. too.
How did you and Rosie
get together?
Well. there was no overlap.
if that's what
you're getting at.
Understood.
We were both on the committee
for the train project.
Lots of long nights
and weekends and...
I keep thinking she's
going to come out of the bedroom
or bring me a glass of wine.
You and Rosie
weren't the only ones
who gave a lot
to the rail project.
Hayden Barnes made a huge
commitment. too. didn't he?
It was his money that--
No. it was Rosalie's
money. as well.
That's what marriage means--
sharing everything.
I wonder
how much Hayden shared
with Rosalie in the divorce.
Mm.
And who's in line for it now.
Yeah. I'll chase up the will.
But. Regan. you'd think.
and probably Shane?
And they were both on the train.
Shane may have been the
last person to talk to Rosalie.
Mm. The romantic
toilet-door exchange.
But what did he do
after that?
Yoo-hoo!
Mrs. Baker.
I was wondering if I could
get my things from the train.
My clipboard and whatnot.
I've got another wedding
this weekend.
I can only hope that
that couple hasn't caught wind
of my involvement
with this debacle.
R.I.P.. Rosalie. obviously.
Your timing is immaculate.
Mrs. Baker.
Uh. we're in need
of your insight.
Please. come on through.
Oh! Ooh!
It's all a bit thrilling.
isn't it?
Actually being part
of a murder investigation.
Uh. could you talk us
through what happened?
Starting at the beginning.
Well. um. Ron and Doug
were at the front.
Anyway. I should drive.
I've seniority.
- Seniority?
What you have is being
scared of hard work.
Uh. we're not so worried
about them.
Uh. can you remember
where everyone was on the train?
Um. well. the catering
was in this one.
And then we were all
in the back.
There was some...
general mingling.
Do you recall
where Shane Griffin was?
Oh. um. he was mainly
talking to a friend.
Fellow train geek.
They're a special breed.
those fer-nin-ninquinologists.
Uh. Shane told us
he went to speak to Rosalie
through the cubicle door
when the train stopped.
Oh. yeah.
that sounds about right.
He was the only other person
on the train
who knew what she
was really doing.
I'll tell you what.
It wasn't easy keeping
that a secret.
S-Sorry.
So was Shane with you
when you got off the train
or was he still back
with Rosalie?
I remember him turning up
at the tracks.
It's not a game.
This is a wake-up call!
What's-- It's
the middle of the afternoon.
We're already awake.
Coal is killing the planet.
Coal is killing the planet!
What's all this?
I can't be certain
how long he was on the train
before he joined us.
Lily was very distracting.
And he...
No. No. no. no.
Not Shane Griffin.
He would never.
He was such an integral part
of the planning.
There was a theme.
I had it all worked out.
Champagne flutes-- tick.
Doilies-- tick.
Flower...
Ooh. what in the blazes
are those?
I was very clear with that
florist what I wanted.
I'll be having strong words
with Jenny Munro--
I quite like them. actually.
- Really?
- Mm.
No. they were not from me.
Definitely not part
of my catalog.
And besides. black roses are
a terrible omen for a wedding.
They symbolize death.
Would Rosalie
have known that?
That note could have
been attached to the flowers.
And I know where else
I've seen black roses recently.
I'm not much
of a flowers man.
but I imagine these are
pretty rare?
Yeah. I suppose.
So if a bunch of black roses
were to show up in the vicinity.
chances are they would
have come from your garden?
There are florists in town.
you know.
Sure. but I'm talking
about a hand-picked bunch.
tied with a ribbon.
delivered with a note.
Is this your writing?
Yes.
It's an interesting message.
given that
black flowers symbolize death.
Is there anything
you want to share. Hayden?
Look. black roses don't
just symbolize death. okay?
They're transformation.
new beginnings.
endings. farewells.
Yeah. I know I'm
not exactly the type.
but Rosalie planted this bush.
She told me all about it.
She would have known
what I was saying.
Mum was wearing one
of the roses on her dress.
She wouldn't have done
that if she thought dad
was being threatening.
You told us you weren't
at the launch
and that you hadn't seen
Rosalie for weeks.
Dad couldn't handle
actually being there
and seeing her with Shane.
Can you blame him?
So I said.
"I'll drop the flowers off."
Right.
Uh. excuse me.
Gina.
Will you be okay?
I've got to take my car
to the garage.
- See you soon.
- Everything alright. bub?
Yeah. just a service. Uh.
should only take a few hours.
For me. nothing can beat
the appeal of a steam train.
The Trans-Siberian Railway
is on my bugger list.
Your what?
My bugger list.
You know when you say.
"Bugger it. let's just do it"?
It's a very common expression.
Mike.
I'm surprised you don't know it.
I think you mean
"bucket list."
Things you want to do
before you kick the bucket.
But what has
the bucket done to you?
Well. it's a saying.
Well. anyway.
the Brokenwood Flyer--
it's not of the same league.
of course.
but one day.
I hope for a ride.
Now I have something
I think you'll like.
Fire away.
When I looked closer
at the two head wounds.
I found something interesting.
Metallic fragments
in both of them.
So the murder weapon
was metal.
Same as the railway tracks.
Same age. same wear.
same rust pattern.
Rosalie was hit
with a length of rail iron?
A small length.
Unless the offender was
very strong.
Mrs. Baker can vouch
that everyone got off the train
at the same time as she did.
except for Shane Griffin.
Oi. you lot!
Anyone home?!
Hello?!
Oh. You want to talk to
this guy?
Noah.
You are a hard man to find.
Not really.
Get in.
- Oh. piss off.
- Not for me. you idiot!
You have to talk to the police
or they'll think you killed her.
Look. he knows his rights. so
don't try anything dodgy. okay?
Wouldn't dream of it.
Just 'cause he has priors
doesn't mean he's done
anything wrong.
Ghosting your girlfriend
isn't technically a crime.
It was one text.
The timing was freaky.
It doesn't mean anything.
You weren't exactly in
a hurry to talk to us. though.
So you're saying. despite your
prior history of protest action.
you had no idea what your
girlfriend was planning to do?
Look. the real target should be
the freight trains
carrying the coal
from the mines.
and she's out here
trying to shut down
a vintage train.
It was pathetic.
I was almost embarrassed
to be involved.
So you were involved.
Uh. no comment.
It is weird that there's
nothing on the socials about it.
So if we checked your phone.
there wouldn't be any footage
of Lily's protest?
Lo and behold.
He obviously was in
one of the trees by the line.
There's Doug and Ron
exiting the engine cab first.
Everyone else piling
out of the carriage.
Mrs. Baker.
Mayor Bloom.
all the others.
Alibi's confirmed.
That's something.
There's Regan.
but where's Shane?
He said he was checking in
with Rosalie.
Yep. Wait for it.
So Regan gets back on briefly.
presumably to alert her mum.
And there she is. stepping
back off. followed by Shane.
Which means he's getting off
the train
a good minute
after everyone else.
- Enough time?
- If he worked fast.
You can't see the back
of the train from this angle.
Why would he
want to kill someone
he's supposed to be marrying?
Well. I followed up
with Rosalie's lawyer.
Shane is a main beneficiary
in the will. as is Regan.
Is this all the footage?
According to Noah.
I stopped recording when
Lily got taken onto the train.
And did you see anything else
or anyone else?
- No.
- We'll need your phone.
And there was nothing
unusual in his call log.
Uh. ditto
his search history.
So if Noah is to be believed.
he wasn't the person
who called Crime Stoppers.
Well. he said he took off
once Lily was
on board the train.
- Where did you go?
- Back home.
Well. Lily told us
you were ghosting her.
so presumably.
she couldn't find you there.
I didn't stick around
for long.
I-I went to a mate's place.
Well. we will need to speak
to that mate.
Well. you can't.
He's in Sydney.
I needed some space to myself.
so I crashed out there instead.
Why did you need some space?
To work out what
I was gonna do?
Dump Lily and leave town.
Well. you make it
sound worse than it was.
Look. I was--
I was over it.
This train thing was
the last straw.
I just wanted to bail
without more of Lily's drama.
Yeah.
I'm not sure I'm buying that.
- Agreed. Where is he now?
- At the McKelvies'.
But we told him to stick around.
Good.
♪ Me and my locked-down baby ♪
♪ We had a ticket
on a silver train ♪
- Down here. you reckon?
- Yep.
Clear line of sight
to the tracks.
The train would have
obscured whatever was happening
to Rosalie at the back of it.
Uh. once it moves off.
though...
Thanks. guys.
- Oi!
- What? Am I not allowed to?
Not on my train.
It's protocol.
Hardly the worst thing
that's happened on your train.
is it?
If Noah was still close by
after the train moved off.
he would have been
able to see Rosalie's body.
But he claims he didn't make
the Crime Stoppers report.
But he might have seen
her dead.
Or he committed
the crime himself.
Could the phone have been
on a tripod?
He left it here
while he boarded the train.
Mm. the footage
was pretty shaky.
Had to be handheld.
Or he was working
with someone else.
He gave them the camera
while he went to the train.
If he is hiding something.
what's his motive?
Sorry. I don't know what else
I can tell you.
Well. what I can tell you
is that we've got footage
that confirms your story
about being last off the train.
Okay. Good.
What I'm interested in
is what you were doing
before that point.
I told you.
I was talking to Rosalie.
She was changing.
and I thought. after that.
she'd probably have a cigarette.
so I left her to it.
It's not a game.
This is a wake-up call!
Here you are.
You have to help.
With what?
Mrs. Baker is
yelling at someone.
I don't know what's going on.
- Okay. I'm coming.
Everything on
Mrs. Baker's schedule
was timed to the minute.
so I knew she'd be in a flap
at the delay.
Sorry. what schedule?
Yeah. nothing left to chance.
It's like holding on
to a little piece of her.
Which is silly. I know.
But I can tell you
that when I spoke to Rosalie.
it was around 2:35 p.m.
Changing time.
Uh. can I take that?
- Um...
- You'll get it back.
Sure.
I can e-mail you a copy
of that. too. if you like.
Thanks.
Why is it so important to
know when I got off the train?
Mrs. Baker said
you might go down that route.
We're following
all lines of inquiry.
You've got this so wrong.
That's another branch
of the old rail line.
That's right. It was never part
of the restoration plan. though.
so most of the tracks
were pulled up years ago.
- How were they disposed of?
- Mm. no idea.
I suppose it would
have been taken off for scrap.
- Mm. Thank you.
- Mm.
Was that Regan Barnes?
Yes. On bereavement leave.
of course.
Poor thing. Just popped in
to get a few things.
Hello.
Hi. there.
- You alright?
- Yeah.
Just. uh. taking a walk.
Helps me think.
Am I right in thinking
that this used to be
the old Johnson Sawmill line?
It's going back a bit.
but yeah.
It's Troy around.
by any chance?
Well. he's out just now.
but he shouldn't be too long.
I'm happy to wait.
Oh. you better come up
to the house. then.
Oh. well. if you insist.
And this is where you tell me
I haven't changed a bit.
Apologies.
They caught my eye.
Oh. that's okay.
I took a long stroll
down memory lane last night.
- This is you and Rosalie?
- Mm.
You. uh.
obviously had some adventures.
Oh. Rosalie--
she was the adventurous one.
She talked me
into all sorts of things.
Here's one of us
on a roller coaster somewhere.
The look on my face.
Is this Troy?
Mm-hmm.
He was born overseas?
Poland.
And I hope you're not going
to ask me about the father.
No.
No. that was the end
of the adventures.
Well. the start of a new one.
I suppose.
Parenthood.
Solo parenthood.
I moved home
when Troy was a few months old.
Moved back in here
with Mum and Dad.
and they were
remarkably-- mm--
non-judgmental.
given the circumstances.
And Rosalie?
Mm...
three years in New York.
two in Paris.
and God knows where after that.
We lost touch.
Our lives were... so different.
Shane mentioned
he went up to the cubicle
just after the train stopped?
I guess so.
What?
You didn't see him go?
I saw him come back.
if that helps.
Everyone else
had got off by then.
so I got back on to find him.
I told him Mrs. Baker was
stressing out and he should go
and see what was up.
- And did he?
- Yes.
But I got off before him.
So there was a time
when she and Shane
may have been the only two
people in the carriage.
You don't think...
No. We're just trying
to establish a timeline.
that's all.
But if you do have reason
to believe that Shane
wanted to harm your mother.
then you should tell us.
Regan?
Mum was super-rich.
and Shane is super-broke.
The only thing he has
is thousands of dollars of debt.
I don't know where
Troy's gone to.
He should be back by now.
Oh. sorry.
Sims.
- Regan Barnes is suggesting
Shane Griffin has money issues.
I see.
Mm... bring her in.
- Copy that.
- Mm.
I'm just calling Troy.
Tell him I'll catch up
with him another time.
It's a big call you've made.
suggesting
that Shane Griffin killed
Rosalie for her money.
I didn't say that.
No.
You stopped just short.
I don't want to believe it.
but the facts are the facts.
I thought you should know.
Uh. this debt of Shane's--
how do you know about it?
I work for the council
in the rates department.
Shane's house is owned
by his dad.
who's in a dementia care unit.
But he hasn't paid
his rates for the last 20 years.
And Shane is responsible
for that?
- He has power of attorney.
- But no way of paying?
Well. it's nearly 200.000.
The council's been talking about
forcing the sale of the house.
Well. if Shane wanted access
to Rosalie's money.
surely marrying her
would get him that.
It was still
her decision what to do with it.
Maybe she didn't know about
the debt.
She never mentioned it.
- Why didn't you tell her?
And lose my job
for breaking confidentiality.
Did Rosalie ever mention
changing her will
to include Shane?
Not to me.
She did. though. didn't she?
But whether Shane
knew that is another question.
This way.
How'd you get on with
the council?
I'm still on hold.
But they said my call is
very important to them.
Be quicker to walk.
Hmm.
Uh. talk to Shane.
See what he has to say
for himself.
Yes. I'm afraid dad did let
things get out of hand.
I don't know
if it was his dementia
or just sheer bloody-mindedness.
- How's that?
- Well. there was
a dispute with the council
over a boundary line.
Years ago. Dad used to get
pretty worked up about it.
So he stopped paying
his rates.
Yeah.
Did Rosalie
know about the debt?
Yeah. of course.
We didn't have any secrets.
Good news. I think.
Case closed.
No. our case. not yours.
Or is it?
Closed. I mean.
I mean. I wouldn't know.
would I?
How could I?
I mean. could I? No.
Sorry.
I've been talking to
the council about it.
been paying it off
in installments.
but it's just-- it's all
the interest and the penalties.
That's the real kicker.
I bet.
Uh. that was DSS Shepherd
calling from the council office.
Your father's rates debt
was paid in full today.
A scheduled payment from
the account of Rosalie Barnes
with the reference
"wedding gift."
Wow.
Thanks.
- Thanks.
It was Regan. wasn't it?
Who told you about the debt.
I knew she didn't think
much of me.
but I didn't think
she'd sink to that.
Well. she's just lost
her mother.
She's looking for answers.
I feel sorry for her.
They never really got along.
Rosie was a wonderful woman.
but motherhood was
not her forte.
She was always finding fault
with Regan. with--
with her hair
and with her clothes
and with her attitude and...
Mothers and daughters. eh?
The last big blow-up
was a few weeks ago.
We'd asked Regan
to meet us for a drink.
and. well.
I was running late.
I don't believe this.
You're a sad. old.
miserable joke.
Darling. I'm trying to help.
No. you're just trying
to control me!
What's new?!
Regan! Regan!
Get back here!
What was that about?
Oh. a man.
Did she say who the man was?
Oh. I didn't think
it was my business.
I'm not her father.
I wouldn't like it
if my mother tried
to dictate my love life.
You don't have a love life.
You don't know that.
No. I think I do.
Anyway. that's not the point.
I'm just saying
I wouldn't like it.
but I wouldn't bash her
over the head
with a piece of railway line.
I don't think
Regan went that far either.
Noah's video and all
the other evidence suggests
that she didn't get
the opportunity.
- Shane. on the other hand.
- Senior?
Uh-huh.
Yeah. Mama said
you wanted to see me.
I was out your way.
I thought a chat
might be useful.
You've probably seen
our search team
working along
the railway tracks.
- Yeah.
We need to extend the search
into the surrounding properties.
There's a chance
the offender has disposed
of the murder weapon
somewhere in the area.
Right.
What was the weapon?
We're still
ascertaining that.
If you have no objections.
I could come out with a team
this afternoon.
take a look around?
Yeah. go for it.
Be wasting your time. though.
Yeah. very likely. It's. uh.
all part of the job. though.
- If that's it. then.
- One more thing.
You said you were working
on a fence that afternoon.
- Yeah.
- Did anyone see you?
Yeah. Jock Wilson.
He's got the neighboring farm.
Uh. laid up with a broken ankle.
But. uh. gave me a wave around.
um. 3:00.
Huh.
Good to know.
Hey. Sims.
get your gum boots.
They look like
railway tracks to me.
Yeah. they were. uh.
lying around out by the road
for years.
Bloody eyesore.
Nobody wanted them.
so. uh...
So you decided
to help yourself.
Thought they
might come in handy one day.
I had a mother-in-law
that was like that
with ice-cream containers.
So. I had a word to Jock.
and. yes. he does remember
seeing Troy working
on the fence at exactly 3:00.
He knows it was 3:00
because he just turned on the
wireless to listen to the news.
Yeah. that's Jock--
old school.
Then I got a full rundown
of the day's activities.
starting with Wordle
first thing in the morning--
he got it in three--
through till 5:00.
when he sat down
to watch "The Chase."
which is when he happened
to glance out the window
and see Troy still at it.
"Hard worker.
That boy needs feeding up."
It's chicken soup
from Jock's freezer.
Yeah. tah!
- Thanks again for your time.
- You are so full of shit!
- Lily--
- Piss off and leave me alone!
Any idea what that was about?
Yeah. young love.
- They were just lying there?
- Mm.
Undisturbed.
by the look of the weeds.
Then again. someone could have
just slid one out from the back.
Those things weigh a ton.
If you're going to use it
as a weapon.
you'd want to cut it down. right?
There were tools in the shed
that could have done that.
Who had access?
To the rails?
Uh. Troy. Bridget. Lily. Noah.
Or anyone who knew
where they were
and wanted to point
the finger at the McKelvies.
Yeah. maybe.
I'm wondering how quickly
I could get from
the crime scene to the
Old Creek Paddock fence line.
Where Jock saw
Troy working at 3:00 p.m.
Well. Lily's protest
stopped the train here at 2:40.
It moved off again
five minutes later.
and Rosalie's body was reported
on the tracks at 2:47.
So if Troy's our man.
he had less than 20 minutes
to get from
point "A" to point "B."
Is that even doable?
There's only one way
to find out.
♪ She a baddie.
with the sauce ♪
- Okay. here we go.
- ♪ Like a boss ♪
♪ Like a boss
- Ready.
- ♪ With the sauce
- Set.
♪ She reppin'
Mana Wahine like a boss ♪
- Go!
- ♪ She a bad Mana Wahine ♪
♪ Bad Mana Wahine ♪
♪ She the
Bad Mana Wahine ♪
♪ Bad Mana Wahine ♪
♪ She a bad Mana Wahine ♪
Come on. man.
We don't have all day.
♪ Bad Mana Wahine ♪
♪ She a bad. with sauce ♪
♪ She reppin'
Mana Wahine like a boss ♪
♪ She a baddie
with the sauce ♪
♪ She reppin'
Mana Wahine like a boss ♪
♪ She a bad Mana Wahine ♪
♪ Bad Mana Wahine ♪
22 minutes. 43 seconds.
Too slow.
So unless Troy McKelvie
can run like Usain Bolt.
he probably didn't kill Rosalie.
You know. I got to say.
I thought you'd be faster.
It was soft underfoot.
challenging conditions.
Usain Bolt couldn't have run
like Usain Bolt in that terrain.
Okay. then.
Hang on.
Is that...
Going somewhere. Noah?
We thought you were told
not to leave town.
I had to get away from Lily.
She's doing my head in.
Not having much luck with
this hitchhiking thing. are you?
No. this is. uh--
This is perfect.
You guys were going to be
my first stop.
Good idea.
Too bad on me.
Right.
Noah. what have you got for us?
Uh. well.
I may have not given you
the full picture earlier.
Come on!
Back on the train!
When the train left.
I didn't know what to do.
so I started heading back
to the house.
You know. she's Lily's nana.
They give me a place to stay.
I felt like I owed
them some loyalty.
So that's
why you didn't tell us.
but did you tell Lily?
What?
That her nan's a murderer?
Yeah. Yeah. I did... eventually.
Well. you saw how that went.
- You are so full of shit!
- Lily--
Piss off and leave me alone!
She didn't want to
believe me.
There's no coming back
from that.
It's better
to just hit the road.
So. she was protesting
about coal trains.
then got run over
by a coal train?
Karma can be cruel at times.
Well. that's not quite...
Frodo. you know I can't comment
on an ongoing investigation.
Yeah. no.
Of course.
Excuse me.
Regan. I just wanted to
thank you for bringing Shane's
rates issue to our attention.
No worries.
You might not be up
with the latest.
but the debt has been paid off.
- What?
- By your mother.
Um. scheduled payment.
A wedding gift.
That must be a relief
for Shane.
Excuse me.
Uh. I have to go.
Sims.
A witness has
Bridget McKelvie at the scene.
Yeah. I'll be there.
We have a witness that puts
you with Rosalie's body
after the train left.
What witness?
Are you denying
that you were there?
Okay. alright.
Despite everything. I wanted
to see the lion in action again.
And the train moved off
while I was watching. and...
and that's when I saw her.
Did you see anyone else
there?
No.
A report was made to
Crime Stoppers around that time.
Was that by you?
One last act of kindness
for your former friend. perhaps?
If we checked your phone. would
we find evidence of that call?
Yes.
It was me.
Well. I couldn't
just leave her there.
After what you'd done.
- What?
- Well. you had motive.
Your conflict
over the railway line.
Access to the likely murder
weapon on your property.
And opportunity.
You were there
when the train stopped.
Did you climb aboard
and murder Rosalie Barnes?
You might want to call
a lawyer. Ms. McKelvie.
Well.
that feels like the closest
we're going to get to
a confession.
What we have is
only circumstantial.
and I think Bridget knows that.
Mm. How did she know that
the train would stop
or that Rosalie would be
at the front of the carriage?
Maybe the details
of Lily's protest
are in the family group chat?
Mm. Let's find out
how chatty they were.
I've just called dad.
He'll be here soon.
That's fine.
Lily. how much did your nan
know about your protest?
What do you mean?
Did she know exactly when
you'd be stopping the train?
Uh... I doubt it.
Why would you want
to know that?
What?
So-- So she could get on board
and attack Rosalie or something?
No. no. she would
never do something like that.
It was just me and Noah. okay?
Nan had nothing
to do with it.
Nothing to do with what?
I was about to inform Lily
we've arrested Bridget
for Rosalie's murder.
- What?
Well. I need to talk to her.
- Well. you can't just yet.
- Ah. you got it wrong.
- Have we?
Bridget was seen on the
tracks next to Rosalie's body.
Your mother has found herself
in a serious situation.
As will Lily. if we find out
that she's been lying to us.
Do you think we got to Troy?
Without a murder weapon.
it's hard
to make those charges stick.
Mm.
Hey.
What have you got?
Uh. Mrs. Baker's run sheet.
Everyone who had it
would have known
that Rosalie was scheduled to be
at the front of the carriage
to change outfits.
So Mrs. Baker.
Rosalie. Shane.
Yeah.
but there was someone else.
Shane e-mailed me a copy
of the run sheet.
and as I scrolled back
through the chain.
I saw all the recipients.
including someone
who received it in error.
Hi. it's Becky.
I'm mortified.
When DC Chalmers called.
I could have kicked myself.
In my defense.
it was an easy mistake to make.
Her address was very similar
to Rosalie's.
Regan Barnes.
Well. she said she didn't
know about the wedding.
I guess it is possible
she never read the e-mail.
Or...
She's lying to us.
Hey. I've got a little job
for you.
Hi. Regan.
It's Detective Sims.
I was hoping
we could have a chat.
Sorry to intrude.
- Well. you actually showed up.
We were just going through
some photos
for the remembrance board.
Thought we'd do it
over a Pimm's.
So much to choose from.
It's such an amazing life
she had.
- Could we have a private word?
- Sure.
What about this one of you
and your mum?
Yea or nay?
- No.
Some people find their baby
photos embarrassing. I suppose.
Better not rock the boat.
Regan. some of the things
you told us
don't match up to
what we've discovered elsewhere.
Would you like me
to spell them out for you
or would you like
to tell me yourself?
God. um.
I was afraid this would come up.
I did tell a white lie.
but it was only
because I wanted to protect him.
Who?
Dad.
Keep talking.
When the other guy was asking
dad about the bunch of roses.
I told him that I'd been the one
to deliver them to mom.
But that wasn't true.
Dad was there that day.
He was on the train.
- I need to see my Nana!
- Which person is--
How many old women
do you have in custody.
you fascist pigs?!
Alright!
Take it down a notch.
No!
Where is she?!
If you calm down.
you can come on through.
You good?
Where's your dad?
You shouldn't be alone
when you're this upset.
I don't know.
He took off
after those other cops
came round.
I'll make you a cup of tea.
Try calling him again.
Okay. yes.
I put the roses on the train.
I promise you.
I took off before I saw Rosalie.
But why give
her flowers at all?
I wanted her to know
I wished her well.
It was her big day.
- You knew about the wedding?
How?
She told me--
after we signed the papers.
Two champagnes.
First date. right?
Last. actually.
We just got divorced.
- Oh. I'm sorry.
- No. not at all.
Um. we are celebrating closure.
To the end of our journey.
Thank you.
Happy ex-wife.
happy life. right?
Do you really mean that?
Don't tell me you want
half the house after all.
I want something from you.
but not that.
What?
Shane and I are
going to get married.
Quite soon.
I'd love it if you
would give us your blessing.
Yeah. she'd ask for
the moon. that one.
and not for a second
think why you might not
be able to give it to her.
But I got there in the end.
That's what
the flowers were--
closure for me.
a new start for her.
So why lie
about your whereabouts that day?
Or. rather.
why let Regan lie for you?
I was in shock.
And I suppose I was worried
how it might look to you lot.
How's that?
Like the angry ex did it.
You would have heard about
those fights we had in public.
But that was early on.
I got over it.
What about Regan?
Not so forgiving.
I blamed her mum
for the breakup.
She always took my side.
even though I was no angel.
I never asked her to lie.
Anyhow. I didn't think it would
matter since I had an alibi.
Your gardener.
So. why do you think Regan
decided to tell the truth now?
No clue.
Look.
I love that girl to bits.
but Rosie had that girl
in therapy for years.
I still have no idea
what makes her tick.
Uh. the techies have
Regan's laptop.
They should be able to find out
if she opened
that run-sheet attachment
or if it went straight to spam.
like she claimed.
Since she's been erratic
with the truth.
I wanted to check
on her movements.
I saw her get picked up by
someone at the council offices
while her car was in
for a service.
I've got the council
CCTV footage.
Okay. That ute--
that's Troy McKelvie's.
So he was playing taxi.
Well. that makes sense.
Helping her out
as she grieves her mother.
An olive branch. perhaps?
Well. I saw him parked
outside Hayden's place today.
He took off
when he saw me.
And they were both at
the coffee cart today.
Together?
No. Uh. Regan took off
when she saw him.
It's almost like she
didn't want to be seen with him.
Because the families hate
each other.
Or... an illicit love affair?
Well. Shane did say
that Rosalie and Regan
had been arguing about a guy
she was seeing.
Well. there you go.
Romeo and Juliet.
And Troy kills Rosalie
so that he and Regan
can be together?
Mm. Well.
they are both grown adults.
They don't need
parental permission to be
in a relationship.
And killing
your partner's mother
is hardly a romantic gesture.
Can you. uh. tell me when
Troy shows up to pick up Lily?
Troy and Regan.
What do you know about
their relationship?
There isn't one.
They hardly know each other.
Yes. uh. given the hostility
between your families.
How far back does that go?
What do you mean?
Troy and Regan.
Did they know each other
when they were young?
I told you.
after Rosalie came back here.
we didn't have much
to do with each other.
Well. I was busy with Troy.
trying to make a go of the farm.
and Rosalie was busy snagging
herself a rich young husband.
Different worlds.
And then there was
the conflict over the rail--
Oh. Rosalie always had to get
her way. no matter who she hurt.
I guess
that almost counts as a motive.
What?
You seem determined
to prove that you have one.
Troy McKelvie's here.
He wants to talk.
Look. whatever mum might be
saying. she didn't kill Rosalie.
How can you be so sure?
Well.
she's pretty fit for her age.
but it's still a big ask.
isn't it.
to think that she could climb
onto a train.
attack Rosalie.
throw her off the back.
and then jump off.
all in a matter of minutes?
Well. you seem to have a very
clear idea of what happened.
Do you want to tell us
about the murder weapon. too?
How about I tell you
that we believe
it was a length of
sawn-off rail line.
the likes of which
were lying around on your farm
that Bridget would
have had access to.
She also had a motive.
So did I.
Doesn't prove anything.
Well.
it could be either of you.
It could be both.
Were you working together?
No.
I was in the paddock.
Jock saw me.
You remember?
I do.
So unless you want to change
your story.
Bridget will remain in custody.
Why don't you tell us
about your relationship
with Regan Barnes?
There is no relationship.
Well. you've been
seen near each other
multiple times recently.
Today. for example.
when I saw you waiting
outside her house.
picking her up from
the council offices yesterday.
We hung out a few times.
That's all.
You dated?
Regan pulled pin long
before it got close to that.
Because her mother
disapproved?
Rosalie interfered?
Regan called time?
And how did that make you feel?
Angry?
No.
It wasn't like that.
So why have you
been trying to see her?
The woman just lost
her mother.
I was offering her condolences.
That's all.
Nothing concrete
to charge him with.
Well. hopefully
his concern for Bridget
will keep him close by.
Mike!
Gina.
- I brought you this.
- Ah!
"The Love Train:
A Trans-Siberian Journey
Into the Heart of Russia."
You were so interested
yesterday.
The translation is poor.
but the story?
Oh. thank you.
Actually. are you
free tomorrow morning?
For you? Yes. of course.
Work or pleasure?
Well. it's a bit of both.
Let's call it field work.
I look forward to it.
What?
I said it was work. didn't I?
- All aboard!
I say that.
Well. you better get it
in there quicker. then.
Ah. so romantic.
Steam travel.
Thank you for this. Mike.
I'm ticking off my bucket list.
Right. This is where the work
part of the trip begins.
Okay. start the train up again.
Same speed as the other day.
I'll tell you when to stop.
- Roger that.
- Yeah. I roger that. too.
Na zdrowie.
Sims.
Uh. Regan's not at home
and she's not
answering her phone.
Could she be
at Shane Griffin's?
More funeral planning?
Chalmers checked.
They were supposed
to have a meeting.
but she never showed.
Still no answer.
Is this like her?
It's not the first time
she's taken off
to get her head together.
- Stop here. please.
- What?
No. no. not you.
Uh. Keep looking.
Uh. gotta go.
There are better spots
for a picnic further back.
Eight minutes.
Mike. if this is all
you needed to calculate.
I could have done it
with simple mathematics.
If a train leaves
point "A" traveling
at "X" kilometers per hour--
Ah. yes.
but what would happen
if a person jumped
from a moving train
traveling at "X"
kilometers per hour?
I think this is
not a hypothetical question.
Mm.
If they were fit and strong
and they rolled on landing.
they could survive jumping from
a moving train with no injuries.
Still need to clear the fence
and make it to the paddock.
though. to be seen
from Jock's house.
You'd better do it then.
For scientific accuracy.
Uh. move a bit slower.
Imagine you're carrying
a heavy murder weapon.
I often imagine this
for my job.
Mike. some of these fence posts
are made of iron.
A very particular iron.
Yeah. And a person of interest
was seen here on the day.
mending the fence.
- Opa!
- Gotcha.
Just listen to me.
Call Sims.
Get backup here now.
Come on. think about it.
Think about it.
Put the knife away. Regan.
Put the knife down. Re--
Put it down. Regan.
- That's a good idea. Regan.
- You have to help me.
He killed my mother!
Yeah. that's the conclusion
I came to.
You have to arrest him.
Take him away.
He's dangerous!
I can certainly take care
of things from here.
Regan. put the knife down. please.
You have to arrest him.
I will. but I can't do that
until you put the knife down.
- You won't let him get away?
- Backup's on the way.
You're not going anywhere.
are you. Troy?
- Except jail.
- Regan.
What are you doing?
No!
No. it was him!
He killed her!
But he didn't do it alone.
Regan Barnes.
I'm arresting you
as an accomplice in the murder
of Rosalie Barnes.
You have a right
to remain silent.
You do not have--
- No! I didn't do it!
Give it up. Regan.
Give it up.
It ain't no point
in lying anymore.
I'm gonna take
your handcuffs off you now.
I didn't do it.
She ruined my life.
She ruined it.
You don't have to say anything. remember?
It was always about her.
Everything was always about her.
She never put me first.
That's what mothers
are supposed to do.
They're supposed
to put their daughters first.
But she never did.
She was selfish.
And-- And she used people.
Everyone.
Me and-- and dad and Bridget
and-- and everyone.
Why?
The psych team are
on their way.
♪ What color were
your mother's eyes? ♪
♪ What songs did she
sing to you in the night? ♪
♪ Did she comb your hair
and tie it up? ♪
♪ When she looked at you.
did she see herself? ♪
♪ Take me to the place ♪
♪ Where you grew your home ♪
It took me a while
to figure out how you did it.
For starters.
how did you know that
Rosalie would be in the cubicle
when the train stopped?
And then I realized.
Regan knew.
She got sent
the run sheet by mistake.
The only place to change
is at the front of the carriage.
There's a cubicle.
That's where she'll be.
You knew enough
about Lily's protest to know
where she would stop the train.
So you lay in wait.
You wanted Rosalie's
death to look like an accident.
so your weapon matched the rails
that Rosalie would fall on.
Then. with everyone
preoccupied by the protest.
you made your move.
- ♪ Oh. fortune teller
- Coal is killing the planet!
♪ Don't tell me too much ♪
♪ You counted on my fingers ♪
♪ And the night lingers.
then blows ♪
♪ You read it in the water ♪
♪ So much slaughter ♪
What you didn't know is
that Bridget saw you.
♪ It just grows
and grows and grows ♪
- What?
- She was there.
She saw it all.
♪ We say it in silence ♪
♪ In silence. oh. oh. oh ♪
- ♪ We say it in silence
- You then hid in the cubicle.
Quicker the train to
Old Creek Paddock than to run.
Making it in time
to be seen by Jock at 3:00 p.m.
You returned later
to conceal the murder weapon.
having welded it back
to the rail.
Buried. it became part
of the fence line.
Smart guy. aren't you?
To be fair. I didn't have it
all figured out.
I mean. I could see
what your motive would be.
but. Regan. why would
she have wanted her mother dead?
I'd never seen her
like that before.
Completely... out of her mind.
You shouldn't be here.
The police think
I had something to do with it.
Yeah?
Well.
showing up here is not gonna
make you look more innocent.
What do I do?
"Regs." listen to me.
The cops think it was mom.
They've arrested her.
- What?
She's letting them
think it was her.
I tried to talk to her...
talk some sense.
and she wouldn't listen.
What the hell
is the matter with you?
But that's good.
If she's prepared to take the
blame. that's good!
Look. I can't do that to mom.
I can't.
But if Bridget's
already convinced--
Look. it doesn't matter.
I'll leave you out of it.
I promise.
What?!
The cops don't need to know
you had anything to do with it.
It's just me.
- No. They'll know.
They'll work it out. You'll say
the wrong thing. Please!
Look. they will believe me.
For mom's sake.
Make them believe you.
Show them how desperate you are.
I'll help you.
Put the knife down. Regan.
Put the knife down.
Come on. put the knife away.
Regan.
She wanted you to look
guilty by taking your own life.
That's a
rather extreme suggestion.
It's the only way she could
trust me not to drop her in it.
Rosalie disapproved
of your relationship.
You see. that's the bit
I-I couldn't understand.
Until I spoke to Bridget again.
The photo of Troy as a baby.
It was taken at
a maternity hospital?
In Poland. I told you.
I saw a similar photo
yesterday.
Same curtains.
same pictures on the wall.
same baby.
Only. the woman holding him
was Rosalie.
So?
She was there on the day.
Of course she was.
She was wearing a hospital gown
and a patient bracelet.
The last letters of your name
were clearly visible.
It was Rosalie who gave birth.
but to the hospital.
it was Bridget McKelvie.
It was your name
on the birth certificate.
Who were we hurting?
I wanted a child.
And Rosalie wasn't ready
to be a mother.
Never really was.
Ask Regan.
Did Troy know all this?
Oh. Regan must have told him.
She came to me
in a state a few weeks back.
Is it true?
What?
What my selfish cow of a mother
said-- is it true?
I finally find a decent man.
and mum has to ruin it.
She can't stand seeing anyone
else happy. least of all me.
She just has to hoard it all
for herself.
All the attention. all the love.
She's just sick!
- Regan. listen. I don't know.
No. just tell me!
Is it true?!
Is Troy my brother?
If it were up to me.
Troy would never have known.
He's mine.
And that's all that matters.
Regan obviously told you.
And you didn't say anything
to Bridget?
Didn't change anything
between us.
But it changed everything
with Regan.
She told me at the pub.
and. yeah.
she was a little dark on it.
Hey.
If Rosalie had been
a better mother to her.
she might have been
able to let it go. but...
something snapped.
She was obsessed
with getting back at her.
And then. at a point.
she shared her plan with you.
Don't bail on me now.
We deserve some happiness.
So does Bridget.
Since we can't be together.
we can at least get us
all some money.
You went along with
her plan to frame Shane?
Proof of his debt.
This will do it.
I bloody hope so.
You believed that Regan
would inherit a large chunk
of money from Rosalie.
Regan offered to share it
with you.
Maybe it was enough
to clear your debts.
keep Bridget in her old age.
What you didn't know
was that Rosalie
had already committed most
of her funds
to clearing Shane's rates bill.
You killed her for money
that was never coming your way.
Thank you
for a lovely service.
May she rest in peace now.
Time for a Pimm's. I feel.
♪ Trains keep on rolling ♪
♪ Through our little town ♪
♪ It all feels different
without you around ♪
Lovely. isn't it?
How a funeral can
bring people together.
Funerals and free beer.
Excuse me?
Put it on my tab.
Not hard to imagine what
kind of tab you're running.
Tell him-- now.
Trudy offered me a year
of free-tab beer
because I did a favor for her.
Shifting some stolen goods.
It wasn't as dodgy as it sounds.
And don't think I haven't
been keeping track either.
Your year's up as of yesterday.
- Ha!
- Shut up.
- Excuse me.
I don't want to come
between you two lovebirds.
What the hell is
that supposed to mean?
Just try to
keep it seemly. eh?
This is a wake. after all.
Another beer?
Yeah. I reckon.
On your tab?
- I haven't got a bloody tab.
Well. start one.